Pada catatan ini saya ingin belajar tentang cara membuat datacenter server sendiri dan dapat diakses secara public

My Computer Specification
Intel Core I5 11400F
GTX 1660 Super
RAM 24 GB
SSD 128 GB
HDD More 1TB

What Aplication Will I Use and will to learn
1. Hyper-V
2. Proxmox
3. Mikrotik
4. Surely Ubuntu hihihi
5. ZeroTier
5. Nextcloud

1. Getting Started With Hyper-V
2. Configuration Nextcloud Server With Ubuntu OS
3. Configuration Network with Zero Tier
Install ZeroTier On Ubuntu
curl -s https://install.zerotier.com | sudo bash

Join to ZeroTier Server
sudo zerotier-cli join "idzerotierserver"

Show Network
sudo zerotier-cli listnetworks

Route Physycal Network to Zerotier and then Remote Computer can access local network using computer target
Advance - Manage Routes, make destination is ip server all ip subnet, and via is ip computer server ip zerotier in server network

Enable IPv4 Forwarding on the exit node
On the computer acting as the VPN exit node:

sudo nano /etc/sysctl.conf

Add the line:

/etc/sysctl.conf
net.ipv4.ip_forward = 1

Tell the kernel to reload settings:

sudo sysctl -p

Check that settings were correctly applied:

sudo sysctl net.ipv4.ip_forward

If you've joined (and authorized!) your exit node to your network then you are ready to begin configuring it. Start by setting a few environment variables that we will use later:

Save it
Get the name of your ZeroTier interface, it will start with zt:
ip link show
export ZT_IF="name zerotiernetwork"
Next, get the name of the regular WAN interface to the internet:

In our case it was eth0

export WAN_IF=eth0

Enable NAT and IP masquerading:

sudo iptables -t nat -A POSTROUTING -o $WAN_IF -j MASQUERADE

Allow traffic forwarding:

sudo iptables -A FORWARD -m conntrack --ctstate RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT

Allow traffic forwarding from the ZeroTier interface to the WAN interface:

sudo iptables -A FORWARD -i $ZT_IF -o $WAN_IF -j ACCEPT

Make iptables rules persist after reboot:

sudo apt-get install iptables-persistent

Save your new iptables rules:

sudo netfilter-persistent save
Configure your network
Now that your exit node is set up we need to configure your ZeroTier network to advertise a Default Route so that other nodes know that the exit node can route traffic to the internet.

Central > Network > Settings > Managed Routes

0.0.0.0/0 via <zerotier-ip-of-router-node>

4. Configuration Proxmox
Setup Disk For VMC ISO dan BACKUP
zpool create -f vm-storage /dev/sdb
zfs list
zfs create storage1/vmc
Install one server OS ubuntu
Install windows 7

Setup Container Mysql Server

Setup container nextcloud
1. Install XFCE Container Ubuntu That Support Nextcloud
2. Install Apache2
 '''bash sudo apt install apache2 '''
3. Install PHP components
Setup container wordpress
Setup container nodred

Install Mikrotik for Network Configuration

5. Configuration Network and With Mikrotik
6. Move Disk and Add Disk
7. Simulating Backup Data
8.
